# mission-data-challenge

## Context
This challenge is running in a simulated environment and is using a simple one file approach to understand how you think about and solve problems. The boundaries are that the results need to be accessible via curl, the code needs to compile and run within this environment, and the instructions to get the results should be clear.

## Current Code
The current state of the code is a very simplistic version of a single endpoint. In order to make it a production API, there is a lot that has to be done. I tried to add as much as I could within the provided time. There is many more improvements that could be done. Here are the improvements that I have added:

## Changes Made By me:
Changed the project structure: Even on small projects, using a domain driven architecture will improve the project. Having separation of concerns between each layer is helps isolating the functionality in the project. I have separated the http/rest layer in it's own package. In the future, we could add support for SOAP or gRPC. The rest of the layers could potentially be unaffected with this separation. With that same idea, the services and storage have their own packages. In the case of storage, we currently have database support for Postgresql and we could easily add support for other databases or in-memory storage.
Added tests for the getJournals endpoint. Having a domain driven architecture also helps with testing. Since we are dealing with layers, we can focus on one layer at a time and mock the layers our component directly interacts with.
Added a service layer independent from the rest layer and the storage layer to deal with service logic. (here is where sorting happens after retrieving the data, for example)

### Improvements needed to become production ready
- Docker support: Build images of the project to later store in an image repository.
- Add authentication and authorization to protect our endpoints.
- Integration with a CI/CD tool in order to provide checks and deploy our app to the different environments.
- Add some sort of autogenerated documentation. OpenAPI is an option. We can design the API first and then develop it using the OpenAPI spec as a blueprint.
- Add monitoring and observability. Improve some clean logging that will later be fed to a monitoring tool.
- Add configuration support. Currently we have the database configuration hard coded in the config module. Having this selection as an environmental variable will help when deploying in our infrastructure.

## How to run
This project was built using the Golang programing language. If you are running it locally, please make sure that you have Go installed in your machine before trying to run this application.

In order to run the code locally, after checking out the project run:
```bash
$ make run
```

To build the executable, you can run the following command:
```bash 
# Build Executable
$ make build
```

Once built, you can run the app by running the produced executable.
```bash
# Run Executable
$ ./bin/mission-data-challenge
```

## Calling the API

### Create New Journal
To create a new journal entry you can  use:
```bash
$ curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/journals -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"name": "test journal"}'

{"id":"90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a","name":"test journal"}
```

### Get All Journals
Once the app is running. We can poll it from a different terminal using curl:
```bash
$ curl http://localhost:8000/journals | json_pp
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
  0     0    0     0    0     0      0      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--    100   142  100   142    0     0   117k      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  138k
[
   {
      "id" : "90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a",
      "name" : "test journal"
   }
]
```
Note: The `json_pp` at the end will format the resulting response in a more readable json format.

### Create New Entry
Once we have Journals saved, we can add entries.
```bash
$ curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/journals/90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a/entries -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"content": "test content"}'

{"id":"73b37eab-b5b2-4ca9-a7b6-1f0cd6d4f2cd", "journal_id":"90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a","content":"test content"}
```

### Get All Entries
We can get all the entries from any specific journal
### Get All Journals
Once the app is running. We can poll it from a different terminal using curl:
```bash
$ curl http://localhost:8000/journals/90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a/entries | json_pp
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
  0     0    0     0    0     0      0      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--    100   142  100   142    0     0   117k      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  138k
[
   {
      "id" : "73b37eab-b5b2-4ca9-a7b6-1f0cd6d4f2cd",
      "journal_id":"90e61a6a-b299-4c78-97c2-0e997ee8365a",
      "content" : "test entry"
   }
]
```


## How to run tests
This application has tests for the couple of use cases. There are tests for the happy paths and also for failure an edge cases.

Tests can be run using the command:

```bash
# Run tests 
$ make test
?       mission-data-challenge/cmd      [no test files]
?       mission-data-challenge/internal/config  [no test files]
?       mission-data-challenge/internal/service [no test files]
?       mission-data-challenge/internal/service/mocks   [no test files]
?       mission-data-challenge/internal/storage [no test files]
ok      mission-data-challenge/internal/http    0.002s
```
